Ribbon KeyTips & Keyboard Access

*KeyTips* are a quick way to invoke ribbon functionality using only the
keyboard. Use the *ALT* or *F10* keys to enter *KeyTips* mode and you will
notice that several elements of the ribbon are overlaid with small tool tip
style windows. If you press the key indicated by any of the *KeyTips* then the
matching element is invoked. For example, pressing the *KeyTip* for the
application button will cause the button to be invoked and the associated
context menu to be displayed. Pressing the *KeyTip* displayed over a tab will
navigate into the tab and have the *KeyTips* for the groups inside the tab
displayed. You can use the *ESC* key at any time to cancel the last action.

In order to enter keyboard access mode you first enter *KeyTips* mode by using
the *ALT* or *F10* keys. Then instead of pressing a *KeyTip* you use either the
*TAB* key or one of the *LEFT*/*RIGHT*/*UP*/*DOWN* navigation keys. This causes
a switch into keyboard access mode which removes the *KeyTips* from display and
instead highlights the item that has the keyboard focus. Now use the *TAB* key
or one of the *LEFT*/*RIGHT*/*UP*/*DOWN* navigation keys to move around the
various elements that make up the ribbon. When on an element of interest such as
a group button you can use the *SPACE*/*ENTER*/*DOWN* keys to invoke an
appropriate action. Use the *ESC* key at any time to exit keyboard mode.

 

**Keyboard Properties**  
You can see in Figure 1 the ribbon properties relating to keyboard access.

    
*  Figure 1 - Keyboard Properties*

 

**ToggleKeyboardAccess1**  
**ToggleKeyboardAccess2**  
You can modify the two keyboard combinations that switch into keyboard access
modes by using these two properties. By default these values match those used by
the *Microsoft Office 2007* applications but you can modify these to match your
application requirements if needed.
