## KryptonCheckButton

 

Use a *KryptonCheckButton* control when you need to present the user with a
binary choice such as *Yes/No* or *True/False*. This control combines the toggle
button functionality with the styling features of the *Krypton Toolkit*. The
user can toggle between checked and unchecked states by pressing the button.
Place code in the *CheckedChanged* event handler to perform actions based on the
checked state. The content of the control is contained in the *Values* property.
You can define *Text*, *ExtraText* and *Image* details within the *Values*
property.

 

**Appearance** 

Use the *ButtonStyle* property to define the top level styling required for the
appearance of the *KryptonCheckButton* control. The default value
of *Standalone* gives a solid appearance that should be appropriate for use in
most circumstances. Alternatively you can use the *LowProfile* setting for
situations where you need a transparent border and background. See figures 2 and
3 below for examples of the visual difference. A third button style *ButtonSpec*
is used by default for button specifications that are placed inside
*KryptonHeader* and *KryptonHeaderGroup* controls. Buttons that appear on the
caption area of a *KryptonForm* use the *Form* style. There are also custom
styles that can be defined via a *KryptonPalette* for situations where you need
to create variations on the styles already provided. Custom styles are named
simply *Custom1*, *Custom2* and *Custom3*.

 

You can use the *Orientation* property to rotate the control. The default
setting of *Top* shows the content in a left to right and top to bottom
arrangement. Specify *Bottom* to have the control displayed upside down, *Left*
to show the content rotated 90 degrees left and *Right* for 90 degrees rotated
right. See figure 1 for examples.

![*Figure 1 – Orientation Property*](KryptonButton1.png)

*Figure 1 – Orientation Property*

 

 

**Seven States** 

The button can be in one of seven possible states, *Disabled*, *Normal*,
*CheckedNormal*, *Tracking*, *CheckedTracking*, *Pressed* and *CheckedPressed*.
If the control has been disabled because the *Enabled* property is defined as
*False* then the button will be in the *Disabled* state.

 

When enabled and unchecked the button will be in the *Normal* state until the
user moves the mouse over the button at which point it enters the *Tracking*
state. If the user presses the left mouse button whilst over the control then it
enters the *Pressed* state. If the button is checked then the corresponding
states would be *CheckedNormal*, *CheckedTracking* and *CheckedPressed*.

 

In order to customize the appearance of the control in each of the seven states
you can use the properties *StateDisabled*, *StateNormal*, *StateCheckedNormal*,
*StateTracking*, *StateCheckedTracking*, *StatePressed* and
*StateCheckedPressed*. Each of these properties allows you to modify the
background, border and content characteristics.

 

**Common State** 

To speed up the customization process an extra *StateCommon* property has been
provided. The settings from this are used if no override has been defined for
the state specific entry. Note that the specific state values always take
precedence and so if you define the border width in *StateNormal* and
*StateCommon* then the *StateNormal* value will be used whenever the control is
in the *Normal* state. Only if the *StateNormal* value is not overridden will it
look in *StateCommon*.

 

Imagine the following scenario; you would like to define the border of the
button to be 3 pixels wide with a rounding of 2 pixels and always red. Without
the *StateCommon* property you would need to update the same three border
settings in each of *StateDisabled*, *StateNormal*, *StateCheckedNormal*,
*StateTracking*, *StateCheckedTracking*, *StatePressed* and
*StateCheckedPressed* properties. Instead you can define the three border
settings in just *StateCommon* and know they will be used whichever of the seven
appearance states the button is using.

 

**State Overrides** 

There are two additional properties called *OverrideDefault* and *OverrideFocus*
that are involved in altering the appearance of the control. Notice that these
start with the *Override* prefix instead of the usual *State*. This is because
they do not relate to a specific control state such as *Normal* or *Tracking*.
Instead they can be applied to any of the seven possible states and are used to
override the appearance that would otherwise be shown.

 

**Focus Override** 

If the control currently has the focus then the *OverrideFocus* settings are
applied. This can occur when the control is in *Normal*, *CheckedNormal*,
*Tracking*, *CheckedTracking*, *Pressed* or *CheckedPressed* states. By default
the override only alters the appearance so that a focus rectangle is drawn
around the content so that the user can see that the control currently has the
focus.

 

**Default Button Override** 

Each *Form* has the concept of a default button that is clicked when the user
presses the *Enter* key. The *KryptonCheckButton* also supports the default
button mechanism and *OverrideDefault* settings are applied to the appearance
whenever the control has been designated as the default.

 

The following two images show the appearance of the *KryptonCheckButton* in the
various different states for the two standard palettes of *Professional - Office
2003* and *Professional - System*. Each of the seven states *Disable*, *Normal*,
*CheckedNormal*, *Tracking*, *CheckedTracking*, *Pressed* and *CheckedPressed*,
are shown with an additional example to show the *OverrideDefault* and
*OverrideFocus* applied to the Normal state.  
  
**AllowUncheck Property**  
This property has a default value of *True* and so when in the checked state the
user is allowed to click the button to cause a transition to the unchecked
state. If you want to prevent the user from unchecking the button then just set
*AllowUncheck* to *False*. This is useful if you have a group of related check
buttons and want to ensure that at least one is checked at all times. In that
scenario you would use this property to prevent the user from unchecking the
button and so prevent the outcome where none of the grouped buttons are checked.

 

**Examples of Appearance** 

Figure 2 shows the appearance when the default *ButtonStyle* of *Standalone* is
used. You can see that all the different states are drawn as solid controls. The
third button down shows how the default button and focus overrides have affected
the appearance of the *Normal* state above it.

![*Figure 2 – ButtonStyle = Standalone*](KryptonCheckButton1.png)

*Figure 2 – ButtonStyle = Standalone*

 

 

Figure 3 shows exactly the same states but this time the *ButtonStyle* is
*LowProfile*. This time the background is transparent in the *Disabled* and
*Normal* states. This button style is intended for use when you need to overlay
a button onto a background and you want the button to be low profile and only
light up when the user is interacting with it.

![*Figure 3 – ButtonStyle = LowProfile*](KryptonCheckButton2.png)

*Figure 3 – ButtonStyle = LowProfile*
